You had to use something that would get over the
trees. That was one of the things that we did every
once in a while. We didn't do it very long because
somebody would figure it out and call the campus
police. That first year, did you go to any
out-of-town football games? We went to Baylor. I
think Baylor was an out-of-town. How'd you get up
there? I went with one of my ball players, took us up
there. I had some friends at Baylor, so we looked
them up. from El Paso. Did junior buddies ever
hitchhike? Never did. My brother did. That's
about the time when it phases down. Yeah, my
brother hitchhiked a few times. He never had a car
in college, and I finally got one when I was a
junior. Right. So that first year you got around by
foot. By foot. Or by friend. Or by friend. Did your
roommate have a car? No. So we both, me and both
parents figured out we didn't need cars as
freshmen. Right. How often did you communicate
with your parents and how? Every week. Every
Sunday night. Call on my, you know, regular about 8
o'clock. Make sure that, you know, my dad just
said, all I want to hear is your voice. I want to make
sure you're still breathing and, you know. And as
you think back, how accurate were your
descriptions of how things were going? Oh, I made
it pitiful. I, you know, there, you know, I, of
course, I poo-pooed it, made them, and the same
with my letters and everything else. I mean, I'm,
to this day, my wife to this day doesn't believe I
graduated from Texas A&M. She says, you can't
write. I know you can't read. So how did you get out
of the school? I said, well, I worked, you know, I
did the work that was required. Now you already had
this special young lady back home. Yes. How did you
communicate with her? I wrote her letters and then
I called her every week. We could only talk for like
three minutes. Did she write you letters? Oh,
yeah. I got one or two a week. Remember your box
number? Oh, no, I had a different one every single
year. And your box was at MSC or at Northgate?
Northgate. At Northgate. Yeah, every year it was
Northgate. And did you get much other mail except
from her? No. I mean, that's what I'd go for, is just
to get letters from her. My parents would ride. My
mom would ride. Now, was she in school back home?
She was at UTEP. At UTEP, okay. She was a year behind
me, but she went to UTEP. Did you have any dates?
Well, fortunately, my brother made a lot of
friends in College Station. One of them was Joe
Desa. I don't even remember, Joe Joe was a referee.
D-A-I-S-A.
And his wife was Wanda, and she was always in the
plays. But they had a daughter and a son. And the
daughter was a couple years behind me. Of course,
Louie, my brother, was always trying tell her hey
now my brother's coming, my brother's coming, you
need to get hooked up with him, all this kind of
stuff. And actually I wanted to play football at
A&M and Gene Stallings looked at my tapes and I
broke my neck when I was a senior. So that went out
the window but I was basically brought into
College Station knowing the Daces and Bill
Broach, I don't know, Bill Broach who owned the
Shells? There was a real good friend of mine. And so
my junior, my sophomore year, I never ate one meal
at Sebesa Hall at night. I'd walk over to the
Deysa's. They had a place for me every night. Where
did they live? You remember where Tom lived? Right
behind the
Presbyterian Church, that little subdivision
over there. At Northgate? Northgate. Right
around in there. They had a high house and I could
walk over there and eat dinner and talk with Joe
about it. Because he was a basketball referee for
the Southwest Conference. And he stayed with my
parents when he'd referee out there. So he wanted
me to be there every day to talk about sports.
Because his son was not interested in sports and
his daughter wasn't interested in sports. So we'd
go over there. And of course I got his daughter a
date with Dave Elmendorf. And they dated for two
years. So it was kind of a fun deal. Having them
there in town was like having family and they took
care of me real well.
When did you go home for the first time that first
fall? I got to go home at Thanksgiving and at
Christmas. How did you get back and forth?
Airplane.
And what were, when you got home Thanksgiving,
what did you tell your parents it was like? How were
things going? Well, it was kind of unique. My
first, at Thanksgiving, I met up with a girl from
Baylor who was one of my, you know, good, good
friends in high school. And she was cute as can be.
And I have a, I get off the airplane and my
girlfriend's at the bottom of the, you know, you
didn't have a, walkway, you got off stairs. You
walk down this stairs and she's sitting down there
at the bottom and I've got my arm around this girl
with a cowboy hat on and my coat bag hanging over my
shoulder and I'm walking off and she sees me and
she's, you know, That's how I got off the airplane
the first time. And I'm here explaining to her,
this is so-and-so. She's from Baylor. I was just
helping her out down the stairs. So she proceeds to
tell my mom that when I got off the airplane, I had my
arm around this blonde, and I had a cowboy. She'd
never seen me in a cowboy hat. I bought a cowboy hat
down there. So my dad thought it was the fun. He
thought that was the greatest thing in the world
for me to get off the plane with a cowboy hat and an
arm around this blonde. We had a good time, and of
course my dad saw me, and he says, holy cow, what
have you been eating? I gained about 20 pounds, and
I think most of that was attributed to the beer. And
he says, is that what I'm paying for? I told him, I
said, you don't realize how much this costs. This
education has cost him. That's the way the whole
trip went. the gaining weight and arms around
girls and obviously you know you're doing okay you
don't seem like you're you're you're struggling
much you're certain uh all right and uh what what
did you when they ask you what's it like how are
things going what did you tell them i loved it i told
them you know i said i'm never going to come back to
el paso he says i'm going to live and in East Texas,
and I told my girlfriend that. I said, you know,
we're going to live in East Texas. I do not ever want
to come back to El Paso. I love the humidity. I love
the rain. I love everything about, you know, and
most people hate it. I mean, you tell them, and I
loved it. I acclimated to the humidity in a minute.
You know, I enjoyed it. I enjoyed the green trees
and all the stuff down there. So being from the
desert southwest, They just couldn't understand
it. My parents, my dad especially, he, you know,
because he came from Pennsylvania, he swore he'd
never go through another wet winter, so. What did
you tell him about being an Aggie? Of course, my dad
says, well, how are you doing? There's no women
down there. And my grandfather was very upset that
I wasn't in the Corps. Very, very upset. He forced
my brother to be in the Corps for three years. Of
course, my brother hated it. And he literally
would not talk to me about it, not because I wasn't
in the Corps. He says, you're missing everything.
And I said, my life is full. I can't do anymore. I
said, I'm really pretty full. But they wanted to
know how architecture was going. Because of
course, my dad was, I want you to draw these set of
plans for a new building we're going to build. And
they're all looking for. They want that degree and
that knowledge, and they want to start using it.
And so we did a project for him when I was third year
with Larry, and we drew up a building for him and
everything. Then when you go home, Chris, let's
say, no, the semester's not over in those days.
Finals. How did that first semester go
academically? Well, see, we were on a three-point
system when I first started. So it was a struggle. I
got through the first semester was really I got
through everything. I passed everything pretty
well, C's and B's. I think I got a C in history and I
think I got a C in English. No, I failed English my
freshman year, first semester. Took it again in
the spring and passed it. But that first semester,
I could not do the English. I mean, it was a lot of
reading and I'm not a reader. All right, in
hindsight, had Austin not done a good job in
preparing you? Not at all. Is that right? Not at
all. They did real well in the math, but because I
think I didn't have parents that, as long as I was
making B's and C's in high school, for me they
thought, hey, for Sam, my brothers were all honor
students, both above me and behind me. I was the one
in the middle that, you know, If he can just get out
and get by, we're going to let him slide. So that's
really how I got by with just about all of my
education is just enough to get by. All right. So at
the end of the first semester there was no break
then. Right. You stay there. And was Buddy Denton
yet, was he still advising or had he already gone?
Yes. No, I did meet him. His name is really
familiar. I have coffee with him twice a month. A
group of old guys. Barney Welch, one of the former
football coaches, and oh,
the head of the P.E. department then. Austin, no,
Austin Curley, he's another one that joins us. Oh,
boy, my brain forgetting, too.
When you and your buddies went to class, how did you
all dress? Just Levi's and a shirt. That was our
daily. And what did you take? What kind of stuff did
you take to class? I always had a briefcase because
I always had triangles and drawing stuff and
compasses and everything. So, you know, I thought
I was a real nerd here. Everybody else is just
grabbing their books and walking to class, and
I've got a briefcase, and I've got Of course, I got
three classes worth of stuff in there, so it was.
And so you're taking 18, 19 hours? Yeah, I was
taking 18 hours pretty much every semester. One of
the things that will probably dumbfound you,
today the average student thinks 12 is full-time.
Well, our son was just graduated there. Oh, okay.
All right. And he was in the Corps. He, you know, to
digress, he fortunately got the full benefit of
A&M. He would consider me to be a two percenter. And
I'll have to say I was because, you know, all I did
was go to architecture and go to work. That was my
life after baseball. There was no other, you know.
That spring, as varsity, as baseball goes, was
there a freshman team then? There was a freshman
team. I played on the freshman team. And what
position did you play? I was a pitcher. Right. And
who were some of the other key freshmen that year?
Well, John Woods, Denny Beal, Charlie Jenkins.
R.J.
Englert was a freshman with me. R.J. went to the, he
played on the A team or the varsity. He played
there. About how many of those freshman baseball
players thought they were going to play pro ball?
Not too many. R.J. did. Charlie did. I think that
was about it. Everybody else was just there to
play, you know, get through school. And of the
freshman baseball players that year, about how
many of them were on scholarship? I think it was
four. Four out of 15? Maybe we had 15 on the team.
Now, did you describe, identify yourself as a
walk-on? Did you all use that term? Oh, yeah. You
used that term? That's what we did. To me it was
different because I was known as Lou's little
brother. Sure. So, you know, and everybody says,
well, you're not as good as your brother. I said,
well, there aren't too many that are. So you've got
to understand, you know, I said he was all
Southwest Conference when he was a freshman. He
was a sophomore of the year as a sophomore.
All-American as a junior. Very few ballplayers as
good as my brother. So I was always known as Lou's
little brother. You know, I really was not that
good. I shouldn't have, you know, I pitched a few
innings and that's about it. I was entertainment
for Tom Chandler. He'd put me at third base,
because my brother used to play third base and he'd
talk Spanish the whole practice. And Tom would, it
was hilarious because Louie would do a whole game
in Spanish, a commentary in Spanish of what
Chandler was doing and everything else. I mean him
and Tom were very, very good friends. So here he
puts me at third base and wants me to take infield.
And I can't catch nothing. I'm telling you, I won't
catch anything. I wasn't going to get hit in the
face with the baseball. And he says, I don't care if
you catch anything, just talk Spanish. Tell us
what's going on in Spanish. I'd commentate the
game in Spanish. And every time I'd walk on the
baseball field, all the guys that had played
baseball would move out to this. I'd walk on the
field and he'd say, holy cow, when's the balloon
going up? Because I was gaining weight. And by my
sophomore year, he says, if you're going to pitch,
you need to get about 20 pounds off. I said, I'll get
it off, coach. I'll get it off. And I worked
diligently. I got the weight off. And I showed up in
spring. And he says, I thought you were going to get
20 pounds off. He says, we need to work on this.
Every night, he'd be running me. to get the weight
off. With spring baseball, describe the
workouts. I've watched college baseball now. If
the starters had 10 swings at the bat, that was a
lot. If they took 15 balls at infield, that was a
lot. Of course, our field was not Taj Mahal back
there. Tom had one assistant and it was it was a
basically a very simple we didn't get much we
didn't get much workout and with Tom not being able
you know having a lot of help we didn't get much
coaching I mean the key guys got the coaching I mean
he'd concentrate on three or four guys five guys
and work with them but I pitched a lot of batting
practice And I did a lot of running. Now the varsity
had about 15, 18? 18 people on it. Okay. And then you
freshmen. Workouts began about what time? We'd
get there about 2, we'd want to start about 3. And it
would go on how long? Until 6 o'clock. Did you all do
any physical workouts? We, yeah, we very limited
weight lifting. Back then weight lifting was not
you know, encouraged by baseball players. For
baseball players, they thought it'd make us, you
know, hurt our muscles and we needed to be loose. So
we went to the workout room, but I mean, we never
were allowed to weigh or lift more than so many
pounds and that kind of stuff. And where was that
room? It was right behind
G. Raleigh. Not G. Raleigh. It was in the swimming
complex. Oh, oh, oh. Down. It was a dungeon. Down's
not a, the Down's an auditorium? Or the old
basketball arena. Well, it was where the indoor
swimming pool was. Okay, all right. It was right
behind there. And it was not, I don't know how
anybody worked down there, but that's what we did.
Now, what equipment did the institution provide?
Did you have your own gloves? We brought our own
gloves and cleats. They gave us a hat. We got to keep
our hats. Everything else was uniform that we
turned back. So you got a uniform, they wash it for
you, and they give it back at the end of the year. Did
you get assigned a number as a freshman? Yeah, I got
signed, I think it was 27. It had no significance.
No significance. Well, I got what was on it and what
was there. Did the freshman team play games? Yeah.
We played about, I guess about 11, 12 games. We
actually traveled once. With whom? We played SMU,
TCU, people in Southwest Conference. We played
Glenn and a couple other junior colleges. And
out-of-town games, where did you travel to? We
went to Austin one time. Did you? Well, that was our
out-of-town game that year. And did you all win it?
No, we didn't. Oh, boy. We didn't win too many
against Texas when we played. All right. You
worked out five days a week or six as a freshman?
Five. Five. Actually four. Chandler figured
Friday was like everybody else. Everybody was
going to go home. So Friday we weren't really
required to be there. And you went to, you freshmen
went to the varsity games but did not suit up.
Correct. Did you all have any duties? Oh yeah. We
raked the field. We lined the field. Whatever it
took to get the field ready, that's what we did. Did
you all ever do any pranks, good bull? I didn't.
class did. I mean I got out of there before I was in
varsity where all the pranksters were so I really
didn't get to do much. And you freshmen didn't do
anything with the, you didn't play any, attempt
any tricks on the varsity? No, we were too scared of
the varsity. Those guys were all, you know. Then
spring break did you go home? Of course that was
just an Easter break then. Yeah, but we didn't go
home because we were playing baseball. So we had to
stay there. About how many people attended the
baseball games then? Eh, if we had 50, it was a lot.
We thought we had a good crowd. And the stadium, the
baseball stadium was due south of the, of Kyle
Field? It was, yeah, southwest. It was on that
corner. The center field was on the corner of G
Rowley. Yeah, that's what I thought. I mean of
Kyle. Kyle, yeah, yeah. Let's see. You get your
grades in the spring semester and how was that
semester? About the same. I have to take English
again. I have to take the second semester English
in summer school, which I took at UTEP. Okay. And
you go back home and work for your dad. All summer
and then get ready to go. I can't wait to get back to
school. And you're driving the truck and all that.
Yeah. Did you ever think about transferring? No.
Did you think about changing your major? No. I had,
for some reason, I had the confidence, stupid as it
was for not studying as much as I did, that I was just
going to make it. I mean, I was going to do whatever
it took and going to summer school and working and
just communicating. I did a lot of talking to the
profs. I mean, I spent a lot of time in their
offices. Who were some of those? I wish I could
remember. I had a woman English prof. and I can't
remember her name, but she, you know, I'd miss a lot
of classes with baseball, and I went in there and
said, I'm a baseball player. You tell me what I can
do to get a C in this class, and I'll do whatever you
tell me to do. I said, and I'm also an architecture
student, so all my mornings are filled with labs
and I said so if it means coming in at night if it
means doing whatever and she says no no but you know
you're a horrible writer you can't write a
sentence to save your life I said well I you know I'm
very simple I'm a simple person I just simple
sentences yes you are so she helped and she you know
she gave me gave me a lot of credit on stuff that I did
that you know that I could do so that's how I really
got through my one of my English classes And with
Larry Priesmeier. I mean, spending a lot of time in
his, you know, other classes of his to just try and
learn, you know, what I needed to do to get through
the architecture. I never struggled with
architecture. I struggled with everything else.
Allen Stasel, Rodney Hill. Rodney Hill. See,
Rodney Hill was, you know, he was landscape. And he
was one of the guys that said he thought I would do
better in landscape. I said, are you kidding? I
don't want to. And believe it or not, I was. I had a
landscape company for two years, putting in all
those stupid plants that he was telling me the
name. So, you know, it comes back to bite you. You
know, the stories go, learn all you can because you
may need it someday. John Greer? John Greer was
there. I still can't remember the guy that was from
Santa Fe, Pecos, New Mexico.
Were there any, do you remember any famous people
that came to lecture, to visit? I don't. We had,
I.M. Pei came to, he did a judging of some stuff that
the upperclassmen did once, and then Phillip
Johnson came. Franklin Wright was still alive, I
believe, but we saw a lot of his stuff. How much did
you and during those four years, how much did you
and your buddies see of Romanek? How visible was
he? A lot. He was in every class. I think he came by
the class at least once or twice a week. Make
believe I didn't know him and as a close friend,
describe Romanek. Make believe I'd never seen him
or heard him. I'd describe him as a foreigner.
Because he was foreign to everything at that
school except the architecture department. I
mean, he really was. He drove a big black Buick
Riviera. And he'd park it right where nobody could
get in and nobody could get out. And he'd walk in.
And he'd walk in your class. And he'd tell you, what
are you doing? I mean, to everybody. I don't
understand. I don't understand. What is this? And
he'd make you go through your diatribe on all this
know you try and make up some big thing about you
doing he says it just looks like a pile of crap to me
you know and and he'd walk out he wouldn't give you
an explanation he wouldn't give you his theory and
but he was very very knowledgeable and he was i
think his his knowledge of the profession and
where it was going and what it needed to what needed
to happen in it was uh very far reaching. What was
his purpose, you think, in those, in that routine,
those questions? I think he wanted to get us to
think about actually what we were doing instead of
just doing it. I think he had been around long
enough that he could take, you know, he could tell
the BS and the people who were really thinking
about their work and he could see, you know, he, I
mean, we had some really brilliant kids, I mean,
guys that I worked with in the architecture
department, I mean, several of them got fellows
and they they went on i mean they were really pretty
sharp guys and i i was just in awe of the things they
could design and you know i didn't when you hear him
come in and talk to these guys you think why can't i
think like that you know why can't i do that you know
you start you you just start seeing these are the
architects that are going to be you know working
for gerald heinz and working for the the people out
there that are doing the things so it was you know it
was uh I always thought, what the heck is he doing in
here? I'm trying to do my work, and he's in here. And
of course, Larry Priesmeier encouraged it. He'd
want him in there. So all of them did. He would walk
around, and I think he inspired a lot of people. He
certainly didn't inspire me, but he did inspire a
lot of the people who were really true good
architects. All right, now he was the dean. He was
the dean. Do you remember any of the other campus
administrators? Did you have any impression of
Earl Rudder? I thought, I thought Earl Runner did
the greatest thing in the world. He allowed women
on campus. I mean, that for us, that was, you know,
you know, forget the Corps and all that stuff. That
was great. You know, we weren't old army. We
thought, hey, man, let's do more things like this.
Let's. If there had been a poll when you were an
undergraduate by the A&M student body regarding
the admission of women, what do you think it would
have been? Oh, 90% against and 10% for. That's what
I think. I think because it was that the campus is
still run by the Corps, and the Corps was not
interested in having – I mean, talk about the
students. If you just took it out of the non-regs,
then it would have been the other way around. It
would have been 90%. But, you know, there was
13,000 guys there, and that's 6,000 of them were in
the Corps, so – Describe the student body in
general. Where were they from? What kinds of
families? What kind of background? Income,
geography, and so forth. I say they're all middle
class. Very, very, very middle class. All country
folk, as far as I was concerned. I mean, I went to
Dallas with a few people. But they're all real. My
brother came back and my dad says, oh, he's turned
into a redneck. I said, no, he's not turned into a
redneck. He's turned into a Texan. We're from El
Paso. You've got to understand, El Paso mentality
and Texan mentality are two different
mentalities. And my brother came back and he was
just really, y'all. It's just one of those things.
My roommate was from Nacogdoches. bring two
homemade cherry pies and his mom would show up and
it was just like my mom. She, you know, John would,
you know, you got to clean your room, John. You got
to do this, John. You know, my mom would, you know,
when they came, that's the same thing. And we had to
clean up before they got there.
But the student body, was it diverse? Were there
some Hispanics? Yeah. I mean, one of the guys that
plays in the band was from Mexico. And a couple
other guys on the baseball team were Hispanics. So
yeah, we had some Hispanics. Of course, the Hill
brothers were there. On the football team, we had
blacks. And the Hill brothers were hilarious. I
mean, they'd come to baseball practice and go on
the track. And they'd try and hit the baseball.
They were rare characters. Those two Hill
brothers were pretty good guys. As far as you know,
how were Hispanics and blacks treated as A&M
students? I was Hispanic. I mean, I let it be known,
you know. I mean, I spoke Spanish. I did all that.
I don't have the skin color, but still, I never saw
anything. Everybody was treated the same. Your
struggle was getting through the school. It
wasn't against each other. That's right.
You remember going to Silver Taps? Yes, Silver
Taps, Silver Taps. I couldn't believe it. Why are
they doing this? Did you and your buddies take it
seriously? Yeah, we did. Everybody did, I think.
No jokes, no pranks? No, it wasn't looked down on at
all. I was one of these guys, why are they doing
this? You kind of go, they're skeptical, and you go
through it one time, and you think, oh, now I
understand. During your four years, four and a
half years, was there ever a silver taps involving
someone you knew well? No. Really, you know,
because I was two years on campus and two and a half
off, I really can't remember anybody. Now it's
held every month and there may be three or four
because student body being so much larger.
Religious activities, did you participate in any
local religious group? I used to go to the All Faith
Chapel. I went to church every Sunday. I made it a
prayer to walk and get to church and stuff. I went to
Catholic church. But yeah, I tried. You went over
to St. Mary's? Yeah, I tried. And Sunday morning
and Sunday night? Just Sunday morning. Sunday
morning. Were there a good many students that
went? Yeah, absolutely there were. I mean,
everybody would be walking, so everybody would
show up. And see, St. Mary's, it is doing well now.
They've got a big building over there. It's really
growing. Religious emphasis week wasn't
anymore, was it? No. See, in my early years there in
the early 60's, there was a week in the spring and
the YMCA was not an important place. No, I never
went to the Y. Never did. What about MSC? Oh yeah, I
went to MSC a lot. What did you and your buddies do at
the MSC? Oh, just, you know, bold, hung around. I
spent most of my time at the Aggie Den. At the where?
Aggie Den in Northgate. It was a pool hall. Oh,
describe that. It's equivalent, I guess, to the
Dixie Chicken now. They didn't serve alcohol. It
was just a pool hall and a bunch of girly magazines
that you'd go in there. And
they probably was about half the size of the
chicken. Once a weekend you'd go over there and
shoot some pool and talk to everybody and have a
good time and just leave. It didn't serve liquor. I
mean we, I can't remember if we were the, when they
changed the drinking age to 18 or not. It might have
been because I remember we could start drinking
and once we started drinking we generally. Before
that change, where did you and your buddies get
drinks? Did you all ever drive to Whiskey Bridge?
No. I don't remember going down there. Really? Of
course, for me it was kind of difficult. I'd just go
to the Daces and have a beer or two if I wanted to. And
I was never, you know, I never got drunk in college.
In Fowler Hall, did anybody keep any beer or
stronger alcohol?